Docs/website (#8)
paastech-cloud/docs: Architecture.md

#### Web application

The website is made using [React](https://react.dev/), we decided to use this framework because it is the most popular, widely used in industry and greatly documented. We also chose React since we are all familiar with it due to several past projects.

As for the component library, we chose [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/). Even though we didn't have any experience with it, we decided to try it out since it was visualy appealing and popular. It is also very well documented and supported by the community.

> [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) was a must have for us to ensure the quality of our code and to avoid bugs. Using a strongly typed codebase was also a good way to ensure the maintainability of our project in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) was a must have for us to ensure the quality of our code and to avoid bugs. Using a strongly typed codebase was also a good way to ensure the maintainability of our project in the future.

The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It is said to support more browsers, has built-in protection against XSRF (cross-site request forgery) and converts data to json format automatically. Axios is probably not the most feature-rich option present, but it is among the most straightforward and easy-to-use.
To simplify the development of the connection with API, our team have used the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) tool which generated typescript objects and functions for every controller and endpoint in our API. The autogenerated code uses Axios to send requests and is based on the OpenAPI specification of the API which was conveniently provided to us by NestJS once we added the `SwaggerModule`.

**Website structure**
The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. An anonymous user can view the home page, as well as pages for login, sign up, email verification and password reset, while an authenticated one have access to their personal dashboard which includes their profile, projects, project info, actions and logs, environment variables and project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now).
```

#### Web application

The website is made using [React](https://react.dev/), we decided to use this framework because it is the most popular, widely used in industry and greatly documented. We also chose React since we are all familiar with it due to several past projects.

As for the component library, we chose [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/). Even though we didn't have any experience with it, we decided to try it out since it was visualy appealing and popular. It is also very well documented and supported by the community.

[Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) was a must have for us to ensure the quality of our code and to avoid bugs. Using a strongly typed codebase was also a good way to ensure the maintainability of our project in the future.

> The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It is said to support more browsers, has built-in protection against XSRF (cross-site request forgery) and converts data to json format automatically. Axios is probably not the most feature-rich option present, but it is among the most straightforward and easy-to-use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It [supports more browsers](https://github.com/axios/axios#browser-support), has built-in protection against CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) and converts data to json format automatically. 
All of this makes Axios one of the most straightforward solutions to use.
```

To simplify the development of the connection with API, our team have used the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) tool which generated typescript objects and functions for every controller and endpoint in our API. The autogenerated code uses Axios to send requests and is based on the OpenAPI specification of the API which was conveniently provided to us by NestJS once we added the `SwaggerModule`.

**Website structure**

> The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. An anonymous user can view the home page, as well as pages for login, sign up, email verification and password reset, while an authenticated one have access to their personal dashboard which includes their profile, projects, project info, actions and logs, environment variables and project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. 

An anonymous user can view:

- The home page
- The login / sign up pages
- The email verification and password reset page

On top of that, an authenticated user has access to their personal dashboard which includes:

- their profile,
- their projects
- project info
- actions and logs
- environment variables
- project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now).
```

#### Web application

> The website is made using [React](https://react.dev/), we decided to use this framework because it is the most popular, widely used in industry and greatly documented. Furthermore, the whole team was already familiar with React thanks to several past projects.

Reviewer 3: Add a source for "most popular, widely used in industry" to prove that point?

```suggestion
The website is made using [React](https://react.dev/). We decided to use this framework because it is the most popular, widely used in industry and greatly documented. Furthermore, the whole team was already familiar with React thanks to several past projects.
```

> As for the component library, we chose [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/). Even though we didn't have any experience with it, we decided to try it out since it was visualy appealing and popular. It is also very well documented and supported by the community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As for the component library, we chose [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/). Even though we didn't have any experience with it, we decided to try it out since it was visually appealing and popular. It is also very well documented and supported by the community.
```

> [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) was a must have for us to ensure code quality and to avoid bugs. Using a strongly typed codebase is also a good way to ensure the maintainability of our project in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) was a must-have for us to ensure code quality and to avoid bugs. Using a strongly typed codebase is also a good way to ensure the maintainability of our project in the future.
```

> The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It [supports more browsers](https://github.com/axios/axios#browser-support), has built-in protection against CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) and converts data to json format automatically. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It [supports more browsers](https://github.com/axios/axios#browser-support), has built-in protection against CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) and converts data to the JSON format automatically. 
```

All of this makes Axios one of the most straightforward solutions to use.

> To simplify the development of the connection with API, our team have used the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) tool which generated typescript objects and functions for every controller and endpoint in our API. The autogenerated code uses Axios to send requests and is based on the OpenAPI specification of the API which was conveniently provided to us by NestJS once we added the `SwaggerModule`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To simplify the development of the connection with the API, our team has used the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) tool which generated TypeScript objects and functions for every controller and endpoint in our API. The auto-generated code uses Axios to send requests, and is based on the OpenAPI specification of the API which was conveniently provided to us by NestJS once we added the `SwaggerModule`.
```

**Website structure**

> The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which gives access to the main PaaSTech features. 
```

Reviewer: Here "which" refers to routes and not the application, so it is correct to use "give" instead of "gives".

An anonymous user can view:

- The home page

> - The login / sign up pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The login/sign up pages
```

- The email verification and password reset page

On top of that, an authenticated user has access to their personal dashboard which includes:

> - their profile,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- their profile
```

- their projects
- project info
- actions and logs
- environment variables

> - project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now)
```

> 

Reviewer: A little map of our website routes:
```suggestion

See the schema of app routes below to better understand how the web interface is structured:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A{App} --> B[Public]
    A --> C[Protected]
    B -->|'root' /| D(HomePage)
    C -->|/dashboard| E(DashboardHomePage)
    D -->|login| F(LoginPage)
    D -->|register| G(RegisterPage)
    D -->|email-verificatio/:token| H(EmailVerificationPage)
    D -->|password-recovery| I(PasswordRecoveryPage)
    D -->|password-reset/:token| J(PasswordResetPage)
    E -->|profile| K(ProfilePage)
    E -->|:projectId| L(DashboardDetails)
    L -->|logs| M(LogsTab)
    L -->|env| N(EnvironmentTab)
    L -->|settings| O(SettingsTab)
```

```

**Website structure**
The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. 

An anonymous user can view:

- The home page
- The login/sign up pages
- The email verification and password reset page

On top of that, an authenticated user has access to their personal dashboard, which includes:

- their profile
- their projects
- project info
- actions and logs
- environment variables
- project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now)

See the schema of the app routes below to better understand how the web interface is structured:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A{App} --> B[Public]
    A --> C[Protected]
    B -->|'root' /| D(HomePage)
    C -->|/dashboard| E(DashboardHomePage)
    D -->|login| F(LoginPage)
    D -->|register| G(RegisterPage)
    D -->|email-verificatio/:token| H(EmailVerificationPage)
    D -->|password-recovery| I(PasswordRecoveryPage)
    D -->|password-reset/:token| J(PasswordResetPage)
    E -->|profile| K(ProfilePage)
    E -->|:projectId| L(DashboardDetails)
    L -->|logs| M(LogsTab)
    L -->|env| N(EnvironmentTab)
    L -->|settings| O(SettingsTab)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As was said earlier, the website is divided into two parts: publicly-accessible and protected. Public endpoints are those related to user authentication, including password recovery and account activation via email validation. The routes which allow users to access their profile and projects are obviously not available for anonymous visitors.
```

The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It [supports more browsers](https://github.com/axios/axios#browser-support), has built-in protection against CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) and converts data to the JSON format automatically. 
All of this makes Axios one of the most straightforward solutions to use.
To simplify the development of the connection with the API, our team has used the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) tool which generated TypeScript objects and functions for every controller and endpoint in our API. The auto-generated code uses Axios to send requests, and is based on the OpenAPI specification of the API which was conveniently provided to us by NestJS once we added the `SwaggerModule`.

**Website structure**

The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. 

An anonymous user can view:

- The home page

> - The login/sign up pages
> - The email verification and password reset page

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The login and sign-up pages
- The email verification and password reset pages
```

On top of that, an authenticated user has access to their personal dashboard, which includes:

- their profile
- their projects

> - project info
> - actions and logs

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- their projects' information
- actions and logs for a given project
```

- environment variables
- project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now)

See the schema of the app routes below to better understand how the web interface is structured:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A{App} --> B[Public]
    A --> C[Protected]
    B -->|'root' /| D(HomePage)

>     C -->|/dashboard| E(DashboardHomePage)

Reviewer 4: Needs a trailing slash to make sense for children routes

```suggestion
    C -->|/dashboard/| E(DashboardHomePage)
```

    D -->|login| F(LoginPage)
    D -->|register| G(RegisterPage)

>     D -->|email-verificatio/:token| H(EmailVerificationPage)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    D -->|email-verification/:token| H(EmailVerificationPage)
```

    D -->|password-recovery| I(PasswordRecoveryPage)
    D -->|password-reset/:token| J(PasswordResetPage)
    E -->|profile| K(ProfilePage)
    E -->|:projectId| L(DashboardDetails)
    L -->|logs| M(LogsTab)
    L -->|env| N(EnvironmentTab)
    L -->|settings| O(SettingsTab)

> ```

Reviewer 4: Please ensure the `:token`, `:projectId` and other parameters are explained, as the reader may not know what it implies. Make sure to describe that they are varying parameters, but still expected in the URL at all times. If they are optional, use the notation `:?param`

Reviewer: Ok, on it.

> As was said earlier, the website is divided into two parts: publicly-accessible and protected. Public endpoints are those related to user authentication, including password recovery and account activation via email validation. The routes which allow users to access their profile and projects are obviously not available for anonymous visitors.

Reviewer 4: Better get straight to the point, as "as we said earlier" feels off. You can always use "as mentioned above" if needed.

Still, this should be rewritten to add to the already-described parts, instead of repeating descriptions to the reader. For now, this feels like repeating both the diagram and the aforementioned section.
